# English to Odia translation engine technical demo
## Important Terms
- **Parallel pairs**:  English and Odia text pairs with same meaning.
- **Corpus**: A Data set with relevant text data
- **Translation**: Converting meaning of a text in one language to another language.
- **Transliteration**: Converting pronunciation of a text from one language to another.
- **Machine Translation**: Automatic Machine learning based translation
- **Phrase**: Part of a sentence without any particular meaning.
- **Neural Machine Translation**: Deep learning based automatic machine translation.
- **Agent**: Bot.
- **Crawler**: Move from one website to another website like a Spider.
- **Domain**: Business level like Healthcare, IT, Tourism, Religious text, etc.
- **POS tags**: Part of speech tags like Noun, Verb etc.
- **NER**: Named Entity Recognition like Person, Organization, Place, etc.
- **Parse**: Extracting information

## Aim of the demo
- To showcase how the pairs being prepared by the moderators will be used in the translation engine
- To have an end to end flow on how the translation engine is working
- To demonstrate a basic version of the translation engine to have a feel
## Agenda
- Machine Translation (5 Mins) --> Soumendra/Subhadarshi
    - Neural Machine Translation (NMT)
    - Recurrent Neural Network (RNN)
    - Attention based RNN
- Demo (5 mins) --> Soumendra
- Data gathering and preparation (15 mins) --> Soumendra
    - Detailed description on data collection
    - Data cleaning
    - Parallel pair alignment
    - Data review mechanism
    - Train, Test, Valid data splitting
    - Challenges
- Neural Machine Translation (15 mins) --> Subhadarshi
    - Overall flow of the program 
        - not into very technical stuff
        - if can prepare pointers will be awesome
    - Challenges
- Immediate road map (5 mins) --> Soumendra/Subhadarshi/Anjan
    - Hosting the Translation engine on a server for public access
    - Preparing more corpus
    - Preparing a standard corpus based on which model accuracy will be decided
    - Tuning the model for better accuracy
- Q&A (15 mins) --> Soumendra/Subhadarshi

### Working Phrases
- Hi
- i love you 
- i love you very much
- Message
- example
- This is a city

## Action Items
- Debug on the translation model engine accuracy
    - Sample the test data and verify
- Utilizing parallel data generated by Google Translate
- Using a English-Odia dictionary
 
